Find Welcome Back in this video we're looking at connection pools and how we can create a connection
pool.
First of all why do we want to create a connection pool.
I know you don't know what a connection pool is or maybe you don't.
But what is the reason behind creating a connection pool and that is going to help you understand why
a connection pool is important.
In my User class here we have two methods saved to database and the load from the to base.
Now when we run the C to database method that runs the connect method and if we go to the connect method
that returns a psychobilly to dot connect and what that does is it creates a connection to the database
.
It opens up a connection to the database.
Not only that but when we get to the end of the with clause as I've said before it commits the connection
and closes the connection.
What does that mean.
When we then load from the database or indeed if we create another user and save it when we run either
of these methods again that runs the connect method again which then creates another connection to the
data base and then at the end of the method apologies it gets to the end then it commits that connection
and it closes the connection.
And if our app was running for a while that would happen over and over again you can assume.
So you would be constantly creating and destroying these connections now destroying the connections
is not the problem.
You can guess it's creating them creating connections is not free in terms of performance.
It's actually the slowest part of interacting with a database by a wide margin.
Naturally if you perform a really large query that's going to take a long time.
But in terms of connecting reading cursors interacting inserting things like that the connect takes
a much longer time than the other things.
So what do we do.
Well instead of creating the connection when we need it we create a bunch of connections and then we
just reuse them.
We never close them although we do commit them.
If you never close the connections you can just keep reusing them creating more cursors which is free
or nearly free but you'll never have to close the connection.
So what does that mean for the code that we've written.
Well it means that we cannot do this.
We can't do with the new connection as connection because that closes that connection and we don't want
that we don't want to close the connection where we want to do is have a group of connections that we
can reuse and that is commonly known as a collection pool.
It's imagine a swimming pool that has a bunch of water particles.
This is the same but instead of water it has connections.
So what we're going to do is we're going to create a connection pool that is going to contain between
one and Penn connections and then when we need a connection we're just going to get one from the pool
.
If there are none available then we are going to create a new one.
But if there are some available in the pool then we're going to get one from there.
OK let's let's do that first and then we'll continue because I can see I'm boring you guys.
So the first thing is to create a connection pool variable and again it doesn't have to be called Connection
Pool.
It can be called whatever you want.
And this is going to be equal to pool not simple connection pool.
Naturally we don't know what pool is.
So we have to import from psychobilly to import pool.
Fortunately that's a thing that exists.
And then we have to give it three things.
Well a bunch of things really we have to give it a parameter called mean corn that keeps disappearing
.
A parliament called Max can mean corn is how many connections should be created.
As soon as this variable is created.
So if we say five as soon as we run this connection pool line as which we run this line of code that's
going to create 5 connections.
As you can imagine that's going to take a while meaning a couple of milliseconds.
The next parameter is the maximum number of connections that this pool can handle.
You may put 100 here for example.
I'm going to put 10.
This number will depend on how many simultaneous connections to a database your program needs.
So if if your program uses a lot of traffic to and from the database you may need a large number them
.
OK.
And I'm going to decrease the 5 to 1 because that just kind of makes sense for this app after that.
Naturally we still need to tell it where it is connecting to.
So now we need the parameters that we need it there that database the user name the password it him
.
So I'm just going to copy them from my second monitor so I don't bore you guys.
And there we go.
This is our simple connection pool that has between 1 and 10 available connections at any one time.
If you go over 10 we're going to look at what happens and it connects to these things.
Now let's go back to our user and now there's the disconnect method doesn't exist.
So instead we're going to import connection pool.
And now instead of doing with CONNECT ask connection what we have to do is with CONNECT sort with connection
pool don't get Khan as connection.
And here we have a connection pool don't get on connection.
So really not much has changed.
All that's changed now is that instead of creating a new connection here we're just requesting one from
the pool.
It's still going to happen that if there isn't one available meaning if for example we had zero then
if it isn't no connections available then it's going to create one.
And so on.
OK.
So what does this get Conon method and how was the connection pool run out of connections.
OK the first thing to see is whether this works like so like it is now.
So I'm going to go and change this thing here.
I'm going to run it run my app and then I'm going to go to PC admen 3 and I'm going to run those and
we can see that and it's that.
So she is called Rowlf But you know that's fine.
So this is working.
We are able to insert data retrieving a connection from the connection pool using this connection pool
Dockett con method as opposed to creating it.
So that works.
Now I'm going to do something slightly different which is I'm going to create a user save it to the
database and then I'm going to retrieve it.
So user from D-B equals user.
So
likesome So as you know this is just creating a variable called user from D.B and it's equal to use
and or load from D-B by email.
And that's the email of the first user that we inserted.
And then we're printing it out let's press play again and see if that works.
We got printed out once again PGE admin 3 now should show and Smith is that twice which is correct.
She sort of called her off and we retrieved the user.
Fantastic.
Now here is the interesting thing.
What happens if I change this to one.
It has a minimum number of connections of one the maximum number of connections of one.
So it has one connection.
We are first saving the user that we created in the database.
So let's go into that method in here saving even that it is getting a connection from the pool then
it's opening a cursor and it's inserting that into the database.
And then presumably that's closing the cursor.
And since it got the connection from the pool presumably is going to put it back right.
OK.
And then the load from the database by e-mail then it does essentially the same thing.
It gets a connection from the pool then it gets a cursor and then executes that and then it closes the
cursor.
And then again presumably it is returning the collection the connection to the pool.
That's what a with statement does right.
Something like that as well we looked at kind of more or less we can close the connection before so
surely now it's going to put it back.
And when I pressed play.
And unfortunately for us that is not what happens.
We get a connection pool exhausted pool area connection pool exhausted.
So why what is this doing.
And that is something special going on with this with statement and this with statement has to be programmed
specifically to work which means if it's not been programmed specifically this with statement.
All it does is is connection equal connection pooled or gedcom.
And this should not be invented in that case.
And this is the same thing.
So now you see why the connection pool is getting exhausted nobody program specifically for the connection
pool that we should be able to use the with statement and because it wasn't programmed specifically
using the with statement just renders it into this we get a connection and put it in that connection
variable but we never return it.
The lesson to learn from this is if you don't know what the with statement does with your specific thing
that you're using it with that gets a bit dangerous.
So here we are getting a connection in the safe to the beat when we run safe to D-B we get a connection
and that is the only connection that this pool has.
And we never put it back.
So then when we run low from D-B we try to get a connection but there is none so we can't do it.
So what to do at the end of the with statement do connection pool don't put Khan connection and we'll
do that at the end of both of these things.
Naturally we can't do it at the end of this one because we are returning things.
That's a bit of a problem minute.
OK let's just remove it from there and we can now run the thing and it will work because we are saving
the database we are going through this thing.
And then at the end we're putting the connection back and then in the this one we're using up another
connection and we're not putting it back.
But that's fine because at the end of our program if we then try to do something else like my user dot
see if the DBI again believe me it won't work.
Tells you Connection pull exhausted again because we ran out this method didn't put the connection back
.
So the lesson to take from this is we need to be able to use with in order to make sure that the connection
gets put back.
And this is a fantastic bit of Python that we're going to be looking at in the next few videos on teaching
you how to use the with statement it's really useful and really quite quite beautiful the way that Python
allows you to do this sort of stuff.
So over the next few videos we're going to be expanding our python knowledge and allowing us to do just
that.
So that was it for this video.
We've learned that connections are not free and we should use a connection pool.
And we've learned that connection pools require you to put the connection back or else they run out
of connections.
So in the next few videos let's look at that and I see you there.